Hi.
This is a practice session in which I will try to explain you the concept of Amazon Elastic Container
Service.
ECS is a fully managed container orchestration service that makes it easy for you to deploy, manage
and scale containerised applications.
So in this lab session, I'm going to download the Docker image from the Docker hub, and then I'm going
to modify the image as per the requirement.
And then I'm going to create a container.
Or in simple words, we can say I'm going to execute that Docker image as a container, but everything
I'm going to perform on the VM virtual machine.
Once you will understand the concept, then I'm going to perform the same thing on my Amazon Elastic Container
Service.
So let's start.
So first of all, I need one VM.
I'm taking Amazon Linux.
Review and launch.
I'm already having Key pair, so that's why I've chosen the existing key pair.
So this is my server.
It will take some time.
Now you can see it is running state.
Let me search with running.
Now this is my one VM and this is the public IP.
So let me log into this system using Mobaxterm software.
So I've logged into my system.
Let me elevate my privilege to root user.
Okay, fine.
So this is the fresh machine.
And here I'm going to download the Docker image from the Docker hub.
So first of all, I need to install the Docker package.
Yum install docker.
Docker has been installed successfully.
I need to start docker service as well.
For that, I'm going to use system ctl.
Start.
Docker.
Docker has been started.
You can check the status.
It is started and let me enable the Docker service as well.
Now.
Everything seems fine now.
Let's see what all the Docker images we have on this system.
So this is a fresh system.
We have this command docker image ls.
So as of now, you can see there is no Docker images on my system and Docker network ls.
So this is the command which will tell you how many network ID you have on your system.
So this is not required at all.
So I'm going to fire this command, very simple command, docker container and run.
I'm going to run a container and the image I want, it should be Ubuntu image.
And with this image I just want to know the OS release version.
So simply just fire this command, cat etc/os release.
So what this command will do basically first it will download the ubuntu image from the Docker hub and
then it is going to run the container using that image.
And once the image would be executed as a container it will fire.
This command cat /etc/os-release and you will get some output and after that
you container which is in standard state, it will be in the exited state, it will be stopped.
So let me file this command.
So here you can see it has given me one error, unable to find this image.
So first it will try to download the image or it will search the image locally.
But this image is not available on my local system.
So first it downloaded the image from the Docker hub and then it has created one container using that
image.
And finally it has executed this command, the last command, and here we have got this output.
So here you can see this is the Ubuntu and everything it has provided you, right?
So if I'll fire docker container ls will not get any output because the container which was executed,
it was executed only for a few seconds and then it has provided you the output.
But if you want to see what all the container was running in the past, simply use -a option.
So here you can see this was the container which was executed and you got this output, the output of
this command and now it is an excited state.
So here to execute the container I'm using this VM machine, but we have few disadvantage.
Like suppose I have a running container and I want to increase the size of the container.
I want to increase its attributes, I want to scale my container.
So these features, you will get it in the Amazon Elastic Container Service.
And one more thing, let me show you.
Suppose you want to execute the container in background.
So the command is docker container run -d Ubuntu and here I'm just giving sleep 30.
So container is running at the background if you want to see simply fire this command.
So here you can see the container is running and this container will be running for 30 seconds.
So here you can see a status up for 7 seconds and after 30 seconds this container will be in exited
state.
Or we can say stopped state.
Now we do not have any output.
And the docker container.
ls and Docker image.
ls.
We have one image.
So this is one thing.
Suppose you want to execute the container in background and also you want to go inside that container.
Suppose you have created a container of ubuntu machine and your container is in running state.
Now you want to go inside that container.
So what is the command for that?
So docker container and run for that.
You have to use few option -i.
i, is for the interactive and I'm going to use t.
t, is basically for the pseudo terminal and what container you want to execute.
For that you have to give the image name docker image.
So I want to execute this ubuntu and after that you want to go inside this machine, simply give bin
bash.
Now you can see that you are inside the ubuntu machine.
You can see its hostname has been changed and simply if will fire this.
We will get this output.
Here you can see now you are in ubuntu machine so if will simply fire this exit command.
What will happen?
Your container in which you are currently in it will be in excited state.
But suppose if you want to come out from this container without stopping or exited this container for
that, simply you have to give ctrl p and q, Now I have come out from that to container, my ubuntu
container but still it is running docker container.
ls here you can see my container is still running.
So in the next lecture I will explain a few more things about the Docker and then we'll move towards
the Amazon Elastic Container Service.
So that's all we'll see you in the next lecture.